# Client-Server-Development

**How do you write programs that are maintainable, readable, and adaptable? Especially consider your work on the CRUD Python module from Project One, which you used to connect the dashboard widgets to the database in Project Two. What were the advantages of working in this way? How else could you use this CRUD Python module in the future?**
Writing programs with separate parts of code such as the python class in project one is very useful and maintainable. The code is commented with explanations for each method making it readable, it is maintainable because it is in its own class so it can be updated without worrying about other programs or code. Finally, it is adaptable because in the future you can create additional dashboards with different elements or provide an API to other developers so they can use your database to create their own interfaces.

**How do you approach a problem as a computer scientist? Consider how you approached the database or dashboard requirements that Grazioso Salvare requested. How did your approach to this project differ from previous assignments in other courses? What techniques or strategies would you use in the future to create databases to meet other client requests?**
As a computer scientist or really anybody that has a problem, the best way forward is to scale or break the task into smaller parts and solve them methodically piece by piece until you have achieved the desired project outcome. Similar to how we solved the dashboard, we began by importing a database then indexing it. We created a python module to act on that database. Then We tested it and moved on to building out interface. We started with layouts then moved to each element and how they pull and display the data. In the past I would have looked at the project as a whole and let the weight of the unknown variables drag me down. Knowing what I know today it is simply just a matter of working through the projects step by step and testing A LOT along the way. In the future I’m going to keep an eye on the terminal whenever I work on any Jupyter notebook tasks, I’ve learned that’s the best way to solve the problems you make have come up.


**What do computer scientists do, and why does it matter? How would your work on this type of project help a company, like Grazioso Salvare, to do their work better?**
Computer scientists especially data scientists and architects provide their clients with the tools they need to make business decisions or find information they need to conduct their business. Data can be stored in all sorts of formats its up the computer scientist to take it and configure it in such a way that it will help a company like Grazioso Salvare find the dogs they need for their rescue operations.
